Gordan Ortega: SOUND Yes.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, great. I'm Dr. Bob reality and you're Gordon nice to
Dawn Abriel: Let me just get your page appear on my computer.
Gordan Ortega: And
Dawn Abriel: We can begin the first thing I need to know
Dawn Abriel: Is the last time you had any kind of opioid
Gordan Ortega: On moment.
Gordan Ortega: It was last Friday.
Dawn Abriel: And
Dawn Abriel: So you've so
Dawn Abriel: Like eight days ago.
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: So how, what have you been doing
Gordan Ortega: Without the open
Dawn Abriel: So let me clear this up for you Suboxone is an opioid
Gordan Ortega: It's a long that an opioid this morning.
Gordan Ortega: Okay, that's one
Dawn Abriel: And and how much
Gordan Ortega: I just had a maybe an eighth of a strip
Dawn Abriel: So one milligram
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah so buprenorphine is a long acting opioid. And the reason it works for withdrawal and bringing people off of opioids is because while you're on the buprenorphine. You don't have to worry about.
Dawn Abriel: It so long acting, you can, you know, have a job and
Dawn Abriel: Just about. Yeah, it depends on the person, but between 24 and 36
Dawn Abriel: And
Dawn Abriel: So have you been doing that one milligram for the last eight days.
Gordan Ortega: Um,
Gordan Ortega: Yeah, more or less about strip is that to me the last eight days. Yeah, okay.
Dawn Abriel: Now that's different than an eighth of a strip is different than a whole strip
Gordan Ortega: I say this trip is last to me the last eight days right
Dawn Abriel: No.
Be
Dawn Abriel: So one strip is eight milligrams
Gordan Ortega: Understand, so if I break it up in a pieces and I take my eight days in a row. That's one strip in eight days.
Dawn Abriel: That's what I asked you. Okay.
Gordan Ortega: Yes.
Dawn Abriel: I thought you said you had a whole strip each day.
Gordan Ortega: Know, over the last 30 days.
Dawn Abriel: Gotcha, gotcha, gotcha.
Dawn Abriel: And it's lasting.
Gordan Ortega: Taking two or three a day.
Gordan Ortega: On my scripts and I was just trying to
Gordan Ortega: Make it last so
Dawn Abriel: Right, yeah. So how long is that a strip lasting you
Gordan Ortega: It's lasted a week, only because I had prior to that, I was teaching
Gordan Ortega: You today and
Dawn Abriel: Gordon for some reason we're having trouble communicating, I must not be asking the questions correctly. I want to know how many hours after you take the eighth of the strip. Do you feel normal.
Gordan Ortega: Um,
Gordan Ortega: I guess maybe about
Gordan Ortega: Eight hours six hours. Okay. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So that really helps me know what to start you want
Dawn Abriel: Um, so were you ever an IV drug user
Gordan Ortega: Yes, those two boxes I had were prescribing I was getting three a day and it just ran out.
Gordan Ortega: A week ago. And that's why I made the last one last like that they weren't something I bought off the street.
Dawn Abriel: Gotcha. So what you've done is you've made your body
Dawn Abriel: decrease the number of receptors.
Dawn Abriel: To take up dope.
Dawn Abriel: An opioid buprenorphine Knox's any of them heroin, you were, you were taking three a day you had many, many, many, many receptors.
Dawn Abriel: But because you came down, you now have very few receptors and that's why you can go that long without feeling
Dawn Abriel: In withdrawal. So that's good. I mean, you've really done yourself a huge favor actually
Dawn Abriel: Because
Dawn Abriel: Well, it's just, I mean if something should happen getting getting Suboxone
Dawn Abriel: Anywhere else and you had to pay cash being on, you know, a three quarters of a strip is a lot cheaper than being on three strips. Right.
Gordan Ortega: Yeah, definitely.
Dawn Abriel: So my most people build tolerance independence, they have to take more and more when they start out with either heroin or the prescription opioids. Was that true for you.
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: Any history of overdose.
Gordan Ortega: My
Gordan Ortega: Used opiates. For the last 12 years and it's only in the last year that I've overdose three time
Gordan Ortega: So yes, in the last year I overdose.
Gordan Ortega: Yeah, heroin and one time off of Naltrexone
Well,
Dawn Abriel: Don't understand know how you could overdose on Naltrexone
Gordan Ortega: Well, I had a counter reaction because I didn't have opiates out of my system long enough.
Gordan Ortega: And I ended up in the ICU.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, any legal issues related to your drug use.
Know,
Gordan Ortega: Are actually yes I have a possession charge and being in Santa Fe.
Dawn Abriel: And any other medical problems. Any abscesses, or heart infection or
Gordan Ortega: Because of the
Dawn Abriel: IV drug use.
Gordan Ortega: Um, I had another analysis, but I got it treated with this likely
Gordan Ortega: I do have bad anxiety usually
Gordan Ortega: I was getting Gavin paying for it for it, which is about to run out but prior to that my doctor was describing to me, I'll pass LM
Gordan Ortega: One milligram tablets. But then I got on Gavin in hydrox Xen and tries to don't right now, which are all about to run out. So I don't know if I need to see a psychiatrist for that or what I need to do if I can use bright heart health in zoom for anxiety stuff to
Dawn Abriel: You know what you're signing up for what this program consists of is one hour of group therapy and that's with a doctor and a therapist and then one hour a week of individual therapy. So that's what this program is
Dawn Abriel: And you get your medicine.
Dawn Abriel: Depending on how easy it is for you to get a foothold. You know, to get established in the program. Some people have such a hard time that we have to write the prescription for
Dawn Abriel: The for just to get to the next appointment group to individual individual the group, group. Those are people who can't have a hard time keeping appointments and the only thing that gets them to us is the prescription
Gordan Ortega: Yeah, this morning was a tough one because I went to bed late, but I made sure to get a sense yeah and and when
Dawn Abriel: When the sobriety when recoveries a priority. That's exactly what people do. So bravo.
Gordan Ortega: I already. For me, it's been hard to getting to
Gordan Ortega: I'm trying to get into residential treatment and whatnot at this place called oil recovery out of your local your local
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, I'm in Santa Fe. Yeah, I know.
Dawn Abriel: It's just hard.
Dawn Abriel: We have solid people
Dawn Abriel: Needing treatment and we don't have enough places.
Gordan Ortega: And I don't know if the person that recommended me was really gave a high recommendation to the doctor that is in Santa Fe. I don't know if that's you, but her name is Melissa oil I got into the opioid outreach program.
Dawn Abriel: Yes, she was asking me just yesterday I talked to her.
Gordan Ortega: And she said, can
Dawn Abriel: I ask you, if my if my guy made it to you. And I said, well, I can't unless he signs are released. But if you tell me I can
Dawn Abriel: Okay, great.
Gordan Ortega: Yes, I guess I'm her first patient or first person to sign up with this and she was
Dawn Abriel: The first referral. Oh, that's super I'm tickled. It could be able to tell her.
Gordan Ortega: My dad's a retired firefighter in Santa Fe, so I
Gordan Ortega: Went over to the house and he gave me her number. And like I said, it's been a couple months now that I've been trying to get in somewhere and we, I have a meeting with oil on the 25th to the cloud with a meme. Surely, and I've been calling every day, just in case somebody leaves and
Gordan Ortega: I'm hoping to get into the residential program is kind of me with my
Gordan Ortega: Legal issues and let them know that I'm in treatment and
Gordan Ortega: Kind of just give me a more of a structured environment to give me more clean I'm under my belt and whatnot.
Dawn Abriel: Meanwhile, you can be in great heart health. You can go to lie and you can come back to bright heart health for the continuing care.
Gordan Ortega: Exactly. No, I really liked the idea of elements without a trance without my own vehicle and stuff is the most convenient.
Gordan Ortega: You bet. You know what I mean. My mom said she could help you if and when I get a prescription or whatnot, or I take the bus that's not a problem. I have my insurance and everything. And luckily, my Medicaid cover this happy to help.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah and you know people
Dawn Abriel: Don't realize that this
Dawn Abriel: That if if they take Medicaid away for addiction.
Dawn Abriel: The problem will just
Dawn Abriel: skyrocket. Oh, yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Anyway, that's a political thing. And I don't need to get on my soapbox
Dawn Abriel: Let me ask you.
Dawn Abriel: When did you first start using any illicit drug. How old were you
Gordan Ortega: Um, I started smoking marijuana. When I was 13 or something like that.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, and who gave it to you.
Gordan Ortega: Again and named my neighbor smoke.
Dawn Abriel: Has your opioid use resulted in problems with relationship and jobs.
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: And bright heart health is which which number program is this for you.
Gordan Ortega: What do you mean
Dawn Abriel: Is this the second time you've been in treatment. The third time fourth time
Gordan Ortega: I guess this will be the fourth time I went to sign up recovery.
Gordan Ortega: To detox three different times.
Okey doke.
Dawn Abriel: And have you ever been hospitalized for a mental health issue.
Gordan Ortega: Yes.
Dawn Abriel: What was asked for.
Gordan Ortega: One time I had a, like a mental breakdown is my PTSD and anxiety.
Gordan Ortega: Kind of go hand in hand with my think it's more of a dual diagnosis type of
Gordan Ortega: Thing where I have anxiety and PTSD and underlying depression and ADHD and all add and I avoid self medicated using our drugs and stuff. And if I had a prescription and probably be fine without
Gordan Ortega: The street drugs and all the consequences on my life. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Well then you answered your own question about finding a psychiatrist and boy are they tough defined in this area.
Dawn Abriel: But if you get, get yourself on a waiting list as soon as possible. I mean, I can help you with some of the medicines, but I can't prescribe the
Dawn Abriel: psych drugs. I don't. I'm an emergency medicine doctor by training. So I just don't know about the psych meds and they require you already have changes in your liver.
Dawn Abriel: So you would have to be watched very carefully, they would want to put you on medicine. That's cleared by your kidneys instead of your liver. So
Dawn Abriel: It's more complicated. So really, really, really get a psychiatrist.
Gordan Ortega: Okay, okay. You said I will have one through right heart health. Right.
Dawn Abriel: Now, no we don't have a psychiatrist.
Gordan Ortega: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: You're going to have to find one in Santa Fe. And again, it means getting on a waiting list.
Dawn Abriel: So at this time. What would you say your stress level is mild, moderate, or severe
Gordan Ortega: moderate to severe
Dawn Abriel: And
Dawn Abriel: The stresses are economic school work legal
Relationships.
Gordan Ortega: Combination of legal relationships, trying to get into this trying to get into a residential and become excuse me recovery.
Gordan Ortega: Mostly
Gordan Ortega: All the issues that stem from
Gordan Ortega: My addictions and drug use.
Gordan Ortega: And the process of trying to unravel the whole mess I put myself in by
Gordan Ortega: doing drugs for a long time, even though I've been
Gordan Ortega: Clean more
Gordan Ortega: I want to use drugs, maybe less than five days out of the last 30 or 40 days but
Gordan Ortega: Other than Suboxone I live in easy to boxing, but the heroin or other drugs that I've used less than
Gordan Ortega: That amount of time but excuse me I'm not keen sense, but it still 12 years or on enough of the drug use doesn't get done with the month of sobriety and that's only on enough. It's not repeat
Yep.
Dawn Abriel: And what would you say
Dawn Abriel: What would you say your self esteem is like good, not good.
Gordan Ortega: My self esteem is good. Okay.
Gordan Ortega: I'm just overwhelmed right now all the stuff I have going on and
Gordan Ortega: Like you say it was not easy to do. You got to get it on waiting lists and the time it's five to eight weeks to get into a program and
Gordan Ortega: This amount of money and then I'm having issues with getting my driver's license and financial issues. I just had my unemployment just ran out so
Gordan Ortega: Trying to think about money and stuff like that same time, I know that my resume.
Gordan Ortega: Be in a stable working anyhow. Yep.
Dawn Abriel: Well, I'll tell you.
Dawn Abriel: If you hang in here for 90 days.
Dawn Abriel: It might take that long to be on the waiting list for boy and you really, really do go to the therapy.
Gordan Ortega: Because I also get a meeting like it. Will you give me that information right to call
Dawn Abriel: Absolutely.
Dawn Abriel: You can get a meeting fairly soon.
Dawn Abriel: And and remember therapy is a very intimate relationship if you don't feel heard and seen it, like, like you're clicking right if that's not happening there needs to be another therapist, you need to say something's not right here. No.
Dawn Abriel: No hard feelings, but I need someone else. It happens to all therapists all all doctors, you can't click with everyone. Right.
Gordan Ortega: Yeah, totally.
Dawn Abriel: But you can't do the work until you
Dawn Abriel: Feel a real kinship, a real relationship with the person
Gordan Ortega: So meetings or one on one meetings or
Dawn Abriel: Whatnot the group is a group, the one on one is individual therapy.
Gordan Ortega: Okay, and they offer both of those.
Dawn Abriel: You have to have both of them. If you don't do both of them you don't get your medicine that week.
Gordan Ortega: Okay cool so
Dawn Abriel: I just noticed that someone walked in line and could see the screen could see your telephone
Dawn Abriel: And when you're in group and individual that can't that can't happen. You have to make sure that no one's in the same room. No one can hear it's best if you have earphones that you
Gordan Ortega: Know minor party right now. I have, I have some great
Dawn Abriel: Okay, and just make sure you're in, you know, a well lit room where where your face can be seen, you know, because this is already a step removed from being in person. So
Dawn Abriel: Is convenient as it
Gordan Ortega: Is
Dawn Abriel: We ask that, that people
Gordan Ortega: Know it's no
Dawn Abriel: No big deal today because it's just the doctor right
Right.
Dawn Abriel: Being in a place where you can sit down.
Dawn Abriel: And have a piece of paper and a pencil to some time to do the exercises that the group Therapist Asked that that's also important, so
Dawn Abriel: If you already have a little notebook, you would want to
Gordan Ortega: Okay, I have all that stuff is like I say, I'm lucky I woke up in time for this. I had to set to alarms and stuff because I
Gordan Ortega: This is my first first consultation or whatnot.
Dawn Abriel: Exactly. Let's go over the past medical. Do you know what your blood type is
Gordan Ortega: No.
Dawn Abriel: So now I have to read a really long list of things and you stop me if any of them apply to you head trauma I ear, nose or throat problems. Any breathing problems like asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, has any muscle joint or skin problems, no arthritis, no broken bones.
Dawn Abriel: Don't have thyroid disease or diabetes anemia cancer.
Gordan Ortega: No eight
Dawn Abriel: HIV sexually transmitted diseases and never
Dawn Abriel: tested positive for tuberculosis.
Gordan Ortega: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: No new moles know new rashes epilepsy, seizures, headaches, severe headaches. Migraines stroke.
Gordan Ortega: And I have back problems.
Gordan Ortega: From car accidents. I just had my thyroid tested i have i
Gordan Ortega: Have to follow up with the doctor. I don't know if you're able to read those results and tell me, but I haven't
Gordan Ortega: The results read from yet. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: I read them.
Dawn Abriel: I could tell you that you have
Gordan Ortega: liver problems.
Gordan Ortega: I do. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, either you have hep C.
Dawn Abriel: Or and and this testing didn't test for that and you really need to get tested for hepatitis C.
Gordan Ortega: Just got tested for HIV. See it said that my it's been introduced to my body, but I have no positive head see
Gordan Ortega: Whatever in my body.
Gordan Ortega: My body is what it offers
Dawn Abriel: Okay, so you're one of those people that your body made them.
Gordan Ortega: On sprint.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: So as far as you know you don't have
Gordan Ortega: MY LIVER. WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY MY LIVER. WHAT
Dawn Abriel: Is I don't know.
Dawn Abriel: I can't tell just from looking at the numbers, you're going to have to get further examination to find out what all is going on, but you have
Dawn Abriel: Some elevated liver enzymes and that only happens when there's damage. Are you a big drinker also
Gordan Ortega: No, I've never been a big drinker.
Gordan Ortega: Oh night. Good night.
Gordan Ortega: Have a drink in the past. It's usually binge drinking alcohol. So that might have something to do with it, although I've never been
Gordan Ortega: That's never been my advice.
Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So you don't have gallbladder problems or heartburn hemorrhoids.
Gordan Ortega: I used to have heartburn really bad for years. At the time I
Gordan Ortega: Eat tons and tons of terms or Rolaids or whatnot, but I haven't gotten heartburn, and while it's great.
Dawn Abriel: hernias.
Gordan Ortega: hernia surgery.
Gordan Ortega: Oh,
Dawn Abriel: Hold on, I'll ask you about surgeries in a minute. Let me finish the physical know
Us.
Dawn Abriel: That if you have one that hasn't been repaired.
No.
Dawn Abriel: You don't have dentures.
Gordan Ortega: You don't you
Dawn Abriel: You weren't born with a heart defect. You don't have murmurs, high blood pressure, blood clots, or an irregular heartbeat.
Dawn Abriel: Row and your kidneys, your bladder and your penis work like they're supposed to.
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: And you said you had depression. How old were you when you first started having depression.
Gordan Ortega: Um,
Gordan Ortega: I don't know. I think mine's a weird form of depression because I don't I'm generally optimistic but it's only like when reevaluating are looking. Then I realized that I have under nine
Gordan Ortega: signs of depression and but it's mostly anxiety I mostly suffer from anxiety, more than anything, but
Gordan Ortega: If I have my depression is more of a repressed type of depression. And I guess I first noticed it in 2012 or 13 when I
Gordan Ortega: When I was sent to prison for three and a half years. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Any hallucinations or seeing things that other people don't see or hear
Gordan Ortega: Um, I saw psychosis like that when I would be doing amphetamines. When I used to do cocaine, but
Gordan Ortega: Normally I don't think I do. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: They've all been drug related
Gordan Ortega: They've all been drugged.
Gordan Ortega: And
Dawn Abriel: Any suicidal thoughts or attempts to
Gordan Ortega: Kill yourself.
Gordan Ortega: Yes.
Dawn Abriel: And
Dawn Abriel: So how many times have you tried
Gordan Ortega: Unfortunately, more times than I can.
Gordan Ortega: put a number on in the past few years.
Gordan Ortega: And I would always tried to
Gordan Ortega: kill myself by
Gordan Ortega: My using heroin to try to overdose myself thing. Luckily, unsuccessfully, I mean, as far as I know, unless this is just some version of hell.
Gordan Ortega: But
Dawn Abriel: So when was the last time.
Gordan Ortega: Maybe about
Gordan Ortega: Six months to a year ago, six months, maybe like in September. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And are you still having those thoughts.
No.
Dawn Abriel: You have any weapons in the home.
Dawn Abriel: You have people that you call people that
Dawn Abriel: You can go to
Dawn Abriel: If you're having those thoughts.
Gordan Ortega: Yes, I have a good support system in place. Good. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So anything anything
Gordan Ortega: Else that
I haven't asked you about
Gordan Ortega: Are you still get to the surgeries. My only one was that hernia surgery in 2007 okay you animate
Again,
Dawn Abriel: I will write down
Dawn Abriel: hernia repair.
Dawn Abriel: tonsils in your appendix in your gallbladder.
Dawn Abriel: Yes. All right. Is your mother alive and in good health.
Gordan Ortega: Yes. Well, she has heart condition and
Gordan Ortega: I forget what it's called but she's generally for the most part, in good health. Okay, and are
Dawn Abriel: Not addicted to drugs.
Gordan Ortega: Never has been.
Dawn Abriel: Your father is he alive.
Gordan Ortega: Yes.
Dawn Abriel: And what does he have going on.
Gordan Ortega: Nothing. As far as I know, okay, he's in good health.
Dawn Abriel: You have brothers and sisters
Gordan Ortega: I have one younger sibling brother. Okay.
Gordan Ortega: And is he alive. Yes.
Dawn Abriel: And in good health.
Gordan Ortega: He takes medication for borderline high blood pressure, but not high blood pressure. I guess right on the
Gordan Ortega: Border of it being too high. But other than that, as far as I know. Yes, he's in good health.
Gordan Ortega: Right.
Dawn Abriel: So no one in your family cousins, uncles, aunts grandparents, no one else has problems with addiction.
Gordan Ortega: That's not true. But I have over 100 first cousins, just on my dad's side of the family. The Ortega's so it's hard to, I know that throughout that amount of
Gordan Ortega: Family on both sides. There's people with addiction and various health or mental issues. But like I say, I have a huge family.
Dawn Abriel: Tell me about tobacco in your life.
Gordan Ortega: I smoke a pack a day when I have it.
Gordan Ortega: And
Dawn Abriel: How old were you when you started
Gordan Ortega: Teenager or preteen okay
Dawn Abriel: And when did you start drinking alcohol.
Gordan Ortega: Maybe
Gordan Ortega: 14
Dawn Abriel: And now you drink occasionally
Gordan Ortega: Yeah I drink maybe
Gordan Ortega: Maybe once every three months.
Dawn Abriel: And do you eat healthy meals or do you have fast food more than a couple times a week.
Gordan Ortega: For the most part, I eat good a healthy meals.
Dawn Abriel: And you get regular exercise.
Gordan Ortega: Yes.
Dawn Abriel: I doing what
Gordan Ortega: I do my own workout regimen. Yesterday I was probably
Gordan Ortega: Five miles.
Gordan Ortega: And then I'll just do my own like push ups or whatever other kinds of exercises I can
Gordan Ortega: Yes, being incarcerated for as much as I have throughout my life makes it pretty
Gordan Ortega: Good at that kind of stuff. We're pretty creative as far as keeping up with my workout. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: You take an aspirin every day.
Gordan Ortega: No.
Dawn Abriel: Do you have a household smoke detector.
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: Do you wear your seat belts.
Dawn Abriel: Are you sexually active right now.
Gordan Ortega: Yes. And you practice safe sex.
Gordan Ortega: I suppose my girlfriend. I've been with for over two years and she's
Gordan Ortega: She has her tubes tied or some kind of operation you have children, but that's Melanie sexual partner. So, okay.
Dawn Abriel: And you were born male and you identify as me.
Gordan Ortega: Yes. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Tell me about benzodiazepines values Zandi bars, any of those that you use on a regular basis.
Gordan Ortega: Well, that's what I've found is bendel's or what I have found is most effective in treating my anxiety. Right now, I have
Gordan Ortega: Excuse me, gather painting and hydrox has been
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, you told me
Gordan Ortega: Yeah, and it's not nearly as effective as the enterprise alarm that I was being
Gordan Ortega: That I was being prescribed before, but I was
Gordan Ortega: Getting the last set of medications prescribed by Santa Fe recovery and they're not going to prescribe me bendel's but I have very
Dawn Abriel: Very few places will will prescribe enzymes and I really, really, really.
Dawn Abriel: Encourage you to not take them for a couple of reasons. One is the amazing number of overdoses that happen because people combine benzodiazepines and opioids. The second one is the benzodiazepines.
Dawn Abriel: affect the brain. So you can't take in new information. You can't learn while you're on Benz's you you can't do learn new stuff when you're on bentos
Dawn Abriel: So they say that when you started using opioids. That's the age you're stuck at
Dawn Abriel: Because your brain can't continue growing. So the combination of opioids and benzo means
Dawn Abriel: You're, you're way behind in what other people have learned about dealing with conflict and dealing with anger and feelings and relationships to have them go smoothly. You're, you're a little behind in what most people have picked up and you know
Dawn Abriel: The, the wiring the change in your brain that's required is what therapy does therapy rewires your brain. The benzo is don't do any rewiring all they do is make it seem like you don't care about the problem.
Dawn Abriel: That's why you need the therapy.
Dawn Abriel: And that your anxiety will
Dawn Abriel: start resolving you'll be just amazed just, you know, six months of therapy, you're going to be a different person.
Gordan Ortega: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Where were you born and raised.
Gordan Ortega: Santa Fe, New Mexico.
Dawn Abriel: And your caffeine intake.
Gordan Ortega: Know,
Gordan Ortega: It's pretty high. I drink a lot of coffee. I was just about to pour my second cup, as he said that
Dawn Abriel: And
Dawn Abriel: Do you have any children.
Gordan Ortega: Yes, I have a 17 year old and a 13 year old right
Dawn Abriel: How far did you go in school.
Gordan Ortega: I have
Gordan Ortega: enough credit, probably to have associates or Bachelor degree. I just haven't applied for my degree at CNN I have 136 credits, you know,
Dawn Abriel: And in what field.
Gordan Ortega: Business Administration. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And you're not you're not currently employed.
Gordan Ortega: I own my own businesses. So I'm self employed, but
Gordan Ortega: As far as a nine to five, which I usually have in conjunction with my own businesses, I'm kind of just support. Like I said, I just got
Gordan Ortega: Finished with unemployment that I was getting from the city of Santa Fe for Parks and Rec. I was working at an alpha roll Bar and Grill and a one a, a, b one Locksmith in Santa Fe and my unemployment just ran out so
Gordan Ortega: No, I'm not employed right now, other than my own business that I still work on
Dawn Abriel: And tell me about methamphetamine use. How old were you when you started. And when was the last time you used
Gordan Ortega: Um, I started it, and maybe 2013
Gordan Ortega: And
Gordan Ortega: I usually use it in conjunction with the opiates and the last time I used it was the last time I used opiates, which was last Friday.
Gordan Ortega: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And cocaine.
Gordan Ortega: I used to use it regularly, but I haven't. The first time I use that I was 16 probably in the last time I used it was
Gordan Ortega: I don't know, years ago.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, and you, you do not have housing insecurity, you're not homeless.
Gordan Ortega: I'm not homeless. No. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: What do you like to do for fun.
Gordan Ortega: I like to go to the casino or hang out with my girlfriend and her kids or my family, my nephew.
Dawn Abriel: Any freedom use
Gordan Ortega: I used it to kick one time when I was
Gordan Ortega: detoxing on my own and my brother had bought me and because he had heard that helped with
Gordan Ortega: With withdrawals and it helped me. Basically, I guess, get to the point from
Gordan Ortega: My last use to the point where I was able to take us a box in but other than that. I've never really use it.
Dawn Abriel: And with whom do you live.
Gordan Ortega: I live with just with a friend right now. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Any military service.
No.
Dawn Abriel: But you do have a girlfriend.
Yes, and
Gordan Ortega: Okay, say that
Dawn Abriel: Now I need to ask you another really long list of questions but but I don't want you to say yes to anything that is part of withdrawal do
Dawn Abriel: You don't have any withdrawal right now, right, because you just took the medicine.
Gordan Ortega: A while ago. No, I don't.
Gordan Ortega: But the appointment came just in time because I just took my left leg that I've been rationing, and it hasn't been lasted me all day.
Gordan Ortega: So I was been tempted to finish it, but I knew that I had to make it last to the ways that I go back to having to find it on the streets and the people that have it on the streets are usually the people that have the same
Gordan Ortega: illicit drugs that I'm trying to avoid. So I'm trying to do this the right way and stay off of them.
Dawn Abriel: Yep. Plus, they don't give you any therapy.
Gordan Ortega: Yeah, exactly, not the good kind anyway.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, so here comes the list fever, night sweats chills cold intolerance, fatigue, weight gain drinking a lot eating a lot red eyes double vision, blurred vision loss of vision changing vision difficulty hearing, hearing loss ear drainage ringing in your ears bloody noses.
Dawn Abriel: Chronic congestion sore lips or mouse or tongue problems with your neck with lumps stiffness or pain, difficulty breathing persistent cough.
Dawn Abriel: Shortness of breath, chest pain heart beating fast or irregularly you can't breathe lying down swelling in your ankles varicose veins, diarrhea, constipation, do you have constipation from the opioids.
No.
Gordan Ortega: That's an you're used to. And I took pills.
Gordan Ortega: Okay, I was taking an oxy code on for years before I ever did heroin and I used to experience the like opioid constipation. Then, but I've been one time was in the hospital for a stomach.
Gordan Ortega: blockage in my test in that they almost had operated on me on. And I think that was a result of the opiate of the pills, but
Gordan Ortega: I haven't had that in long time. Great.
Dawn Abriel: Vomiting rectal pain, abdominal pain.
Dawn Abriel: painful urination blooding your urine penalize being too little change in your hair nail or skin texture hair loss dry skin itching or new moles or rashes, no muscle pain back pain tender points muscle cramps or live
Dawn Abriel: Headache vertigo, dizziness, lightheadedness painting numbness, tingling tremor lack of coordination.
Gordan Ortega: Weakness headaches.
Dawn Abriel: And how often do you have
Gordan Ortega: Um, I think they're usually a couple of my anxiety. So I probably get them at least once a week.
Dawn Abriel: And
Dawn Abriel: Changing mood and we'll put depression. Does the sadness interfere with your day to day life.
No.
Dawn Abriel: And will put positive anxiety and sleep disturbance
Gordan Ortega: Um, I've always been, insomnia, so I don't consider it necessarily a disturbance, but without sleepy. I sleep very little, maybe three to four hours at night.
Gordan Ortega: Right. So the combination of beyond the transit on right now. I'm kind of worried about running out of the government and in the transit on
Dawn Abriel: I know you said that three times now so
Dawn Abriel: Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: I will order those medicines for you.
Gordan Ortega: Okay, cool. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Um, no suicidal thoughts now or hopelessness, you're not seeing things or hearing things and no easy bruising.
Gordan Ortega: Oh, alright.
Dawn Abriel: So now let's go to the GABBA and how much you taking
Gordan Ortega: I've been taking one 300 milligram capsule of Gavin in by mouth twice a day.
Gordan Ortega: And then I've been taking
Gordan Ortega: One tablet of hydroxyl in 50 milligrams per day.
Dawn Abriel: Hold on.
Dawn Abriel: It in the computer. Hold on, let me get it in the
Gordan Ortega: Computer, sorry.
Gordan Ortega: 50 milligram tablet.
Gordan Ortega: Take one tablet by mouth every night at bedtime for insomnia.
Dawn Abriel: It's the 50 milligram that would you said
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: When
Gordan Ortega: I was in the process of trying to have that up for now does when I was in the detox place. But for now, I mean I had gone without it for a few days, because I couldn't find it. And then knowledge is about on, it's like, it's fine. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Anything else
Gordan Ortega: That's it. All right. I just finished my dog is cycling for my abscess.
Gordan Ortega: I was on antibiotics for almost two weeks straight. So I think I'm fine with that.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, you know,
Dawn Abriel: After you are on antibiotics. It's so, so very important to get some foods that are fermented
Gordan Ortega: I've been eating probiotics.
Gordan Ortega: Good boy.
Dawn Abriel: That's what I want to hear.
Dawn Abriel: I'm so it's taken decades for that information to make it into the public. I mean, those of us in medicine, we've known about it for years and years. But finally, that
Gordan Ortega: Is my mama tell you that all the the antibiotics is killing the good bacteria in my stomach to this, I needed to eat yogurt and take my probiotics. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Do you have any allergies to medicines.
Gordan Ortega: Know, no. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So now we're going to do a physical exam.
Dawn Abriel: Do you know, hold on just a second. Let me ask you about some dementia questions you bathe yourself dress yourself feed yourself go the bathroom by yourself and go from one place to another by yourself.
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: You know where you are who you are, what time it is. You make your own decisions you have memory that's appropriate for your age, you can focus and you can read
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: How tall are you,
Gordan Ortega: six feet tall.
Dawn Abriel: And what's your current weight.
Gordan Ortega: 200 pounds.
Alright.
Dawn Abriel: So as soon as you get settled, you're gonna
Gordan Ortega: Sorry.
Dawn Abriel: Do you know how to get your pulse.
Gordan Ortega: Yes. Okay.
Gordan Ortega: You want me to check my pulse. Uh huh.
Dawn Abriel: You get it and I'll tell you went to start counting
Gordan Ortega: Okay, go ahead.
Okay, hold on.
Dawn Abriel: Now,
Dawn Abriel: Stop.
What number six. All right.
Dawn Abriel: And have you had a blood pressure taken recently.
Gordan Ortega: Yes. Hi.
Dawn Abriel: Well, what was it you remember
Gordan Ortega: Last time it was really high. It was like at 150 but it usually like at 130 over at something
Dawn Abriel: Were you were you detoxing when you had the blood pressure taken
Gordan Ortega: Know,
Dawn Abriel: Because it can go up when you're in detox.
Dawn Abriel: First thing I want you to do is to get really close to the camera and bring your eyelid down so I can see under your eyelid.
Gordan Ortega: If you have good enough light.
Dawn Abriel: That's good, fine like go move your eyes, all the way to the right. No, no, let go, let go. Go back.
Dawn Abriel: Move your eyes only all the way to the right.
Dawn Abriel: Left.
Dawn Abriel: Up.
Dawn Abriel: Down.
Dawn Abriel: Okay look straight ahead, read out of both either side of your nose.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, open your mouth really wide.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. Stick your tongue out and move it side to side.
Dawn Abriel: Great. And close your mouth bite down no job pain, your teeth fit normally
Gordan Ortega: Yes. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Let me see you swallow.
Gordan Ortega: I take a drinker.
Dawn Abriel: Alright and take a huge deep breath.
Gordan Ortega: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Blow it out.
Dawn Abriel: And I want you to push on your up your abdomen upper right upper left lower right lower left no bumps or lumps or pain. Nothing in there that doesn't belong
Gordan Ortega: No. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And this the scar from your hernia there it's healed. There's no
Dawn Abriel: Complication from
Gordan Ortega: No, I don't have any complications from it. I mean,
Gordan Ortega: Some sometimes it gets sore and hurts after having sex, but
Gordan Ortega: I think it's normal. This right on my pelvic area. Yeah.
Gordan Ortega: But I see all the commercials for the hernia mesh repair and it gets me scared, but
Dawn Abriel: Why
Gordan Ortega: Well, I mean, because every other day, or every time I turn on the TV. There's class action lawsuits about hernia repair and how it was bad. And if you have complications. But so far, other than that one time having my
Gordan Ortega: Having intestinal blockage. I've never had.
Gordan Ortega: To battle complications, other than it being sore or hurting, depending on what I've done. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: And I need to see you pull your fingers against each other right good and I need to see you tap your fingers on your thumb as fast as you can.
Dawn Abriel: All right.
Dawn Abriel: Take the camera down and show me your ankles.
Gordan Ortega: Good night.
Dawn Abriel: No, that's okay. You're fine.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, I saw the left
Dawn Abriel: All right, good. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: How many tattoos. Do you have
Gordan Ortega: Too many to count.
Gordan Ortega: I have a right sleeve on my right arm three quarters of a sleeve on my left arm tattoos on my legs. My neck my hands.
Gordan Ortega: My shoulder and back.
Dawn Abriel: No complications from them, you never had infections from damn
Gordan Ortega: The last tattoo that I got in prison. I got a staph infection, but I was in that facility with 1200 people so it's
Gordan Ortega: A miracle that I didn't get any other complications or issues.
Gordan Ortega: Prior to that, because of how much work I had done in there, but it was I got on antibiotics right away.
Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So for assessment, we will put opioid use disorder severe and
Dawn Abriel: Generalized Anxiety and
Dawn Abriel: Nick go to dependence.
Dawn Abriel: So let me go over the things that you're going to need to know
Dawn Abriel: I'm also going to send you a an email. Do you check your email at least once a day.
Gordan Ortega: Yes. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Because remember with telemedicine. We really need to be able to get ahold of you to tell you from groups being cancelled or
Gordan Ortega: Best via text.
Gordan Ortega: But I check my emails every day too. So
Gordan Ortega: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: I know the therapist can use text.
Dawn Abriel: But for the most part, anytime you have any question about anything. You go to the virtual clinic.
Dawn Abriel: OK, OK, I'm going to
Gordan Ortega: Be able to tell me
Dawn Abriel: So if you will fill in all the bubbles.
Dawn Abriel: And his assessment. I already put that in there. While he was
Talking that should do it right. Thank you.